We are on the final part or final lesson of ideation, which is, of course,
finalizing your idea.
This part will probably be short.
It kind of builds off of everything we've done, but we'll serve as somewhat of
a conclusion
and we'll go over some basic frameworks about how to actually pick your idea to
move forward
with.
So we started off with case studies.
We went through the background of idea versus execution, analyzing the
different outcome
curves as well as asking yourself about what you're interested in and examining
your constraints
and resources.
We went through human psychology, some of the underpinnings of what makes a
great idea
and what problems you should solve for people.
Went through the process of ideation, identifying and solving your own problems
, scrolling social
media, performing competitive analysis on the app store as well as sensor tower
.
Now finally, we are going to finalize your idea.
And from start to finish, this is begin from a first principle perspective on
human psychology,
examine problems that you and others face, research similar products and
competitors,
and finally make your decision.
Now an extremely important note to add here is once you make your decision to
work on
a product, that doesn't mean that you can't go back on that decision.
There are probably 20 products where I've gone through the ideation phase and
said, yes,
I am going to build this.
And then I open up Figma, right?
We'll talk about this in design.
The next step, like step number one after you've kind of finished your process
of ideation
will be beginning in Figma.
I've opened up Figma, started to work on it, and then at some point between
opening Figma
and actually running influencer promos or doing UGC, some point in that process
, I said,
you know, actually, I don't think this is it.
I think a lot of people fall victim to the sunk cost fallacy.
They put some time into something and they're like, I have to see this through.
I even apply this to reading books in like the sort of self-improvement domain
on social
media and popular culture, you will hear people say, like, if you start
something, you need
to finish it.
People pick up a book and they say, I will finish this book because in the past
, I've
had issues with finishing books.
But what they end up doing is they read, maybe they get a third through it and
they
realize that they're no longer interested.
Or maybe they got everything out of it that they needed.
And instead of closing it and saying, you know what, I'm good here.
I'm going to go pick up a new book.
They say, no, I'm going to finish it because this is a standard I hold myself
to.
And then they just stop reading.
And then they go three months and they haven't picked the book up.
And now they no longer even read.
So the same framework that I play to reading books, I would say probably about
half, maybe
even more than half of the books I read, I close before getting halfway through
it.
Some books I close after five pages.
Others I get halfway through.
I love the book and I say, you know, I think I've gotten everything that I need
from this.
That same framework, I apply to building apps.
And so just because you get here and you make your decision and you say, this
is the idea
I want to work on.
This is the problem that I want to tackle.
Does not mean that you have to make it all the way through modules two, three
and four.
There's absolutely nothing wrong with starting and quitting some point
thereafter.
To me, I think the only real quitting is to quit your pursuit of
entrepreneurship as
a whole within the context of here building apps.
But even that, it's like, man, I did social media marketing for a little while.
I quit that to then do crypto.
I built in the theory of my machine in 2016.
I quit that to then, I think I was actually prioritizing my landscaping
business.
I've quit in so many different domains, but the key thing is that as a whole, I
don't
quit working.
Okay.
Enough of that aside.
In short, you know, just know that just because you make the decision to work
on an idea doesn't
mean that you can't go back to step one or step two.
And even one week later, one month later, whatever maybe.
Now, in the process of making this decision, I think some key questions to ask
ourselves
that we touched on earlier, but I think it's worth revisiting are what does the
timeline
look like?
Different products are going to have different life cycles.
Certain products are going to be more design heavy.
Other products are going to be more, you know, development heavy.
Other products are going to be more distribution heavy.
And you know, when you're new to a domain, you won't have deep knowledge in
that you
won't be able to very accurately predict, but it's worth making intuitive
assessments
as well as using chat GPT to help you predict.
Chat GPT can serve as somewhat of your expert tutor.
And if you are part of the App Mafia community, you'll be able to get guidance
from other
app founders.
Next is, can I build this myself?
How hard will it be to attract somebody that can?
So, do you have the design development and then distribution experience?
And if you don't, will you be able to get somebody that can fill that gap?
So beyond just analyzing how hard it will be from a development perspective,
for example,
before you end up finalizing this decision, it's worth asking yourself whether
or not you'll
be able to find that person.
Now, personally, I would actually recommend moving into the design process
regardless,
in terms of this question.
The reason that I say that is anytime you are going to try to recruit somebody
to work
on your idea, the more progress that you have, the easier it will be.
And so if you have conviction, then I personally would recommend spending even
just a few hours
on design and getting somewhat of a mockup and then sharing that with potential
developers.
I hate when people come to me with an idea and they don't have Figma.
I say to people explicitly, if they send me an idea that they have, let's say
it's a
friend, colleague, whatever, I'll say, "Hey man, thanks for reaching out.
Let me know when you have some Figma designs."
I'm a more visual person, right?
How much cash will I need to get this off the ground, right?
So these are, once again, very similar to the questions and nature of resources
versus constraints
that we went over an idea versus execution.
But you need to ask yourself and reassess them when you get to this step of the
process.
Because if we remember when we were going over idea versus execution, this is
looking
at it from a macro perspective, right?
Like, what are the resources and constraints that I have that will inform how I
even come
up with ideas and now that you have this idea or these couple of ideas that you
're considering
moving forward with, you want to go back and apply the same framework and
questions.
This is of paramount importance to me.
Set it before, I'll say it again and again and again and again.
If I'm not deeply interested in a topic, I will not build around it.
This was not always true.
I did give a hand at projects where I thought that there was significant
opportunity, specifically
economic opportunity.
And every single time I burnt out, every single time I burnt out, the two
things that I really
look at as I say, "Okay.
Am I interested in this topic and the problem that I'm solving?"
That's one.
And then I say, "Am I interested in engaging in the operations and the day to
day that
it will take to achieve that?"
And if the answer to either of those is no, I completely avoid it.
To be honest, I think that the topic and the problem itself are more important
actually
than the day to day.
If, man, there's a good quote here, but something along the lines of like, "If
you have a why,
you can find almost any will."
I probably butcher that, but essentially if you care enough about the end
result, and
not just like what you get, not just like the money, but that can be the major
motivator
for many.
But personally, it's like, "Do I care about bringing this into the world?"
And if, "Oh, oh, oh, he who has a why can bear almost any how."
That's the quote.
And so yeah, if I have a why, I can bear almost any how in that I can do this
shitty little
day to day ops that are boring and repetitive and monotonous because I know
what life looks
like at the end of the tunnel.
I'll give an example here.
In the early days of RizGPT, we were going very viral, very, very, very viral,
and we
were just launching Android.
The internet had been begging.
TikTok had been absolutely begging for this product to get on Android.
And so the day that we launched on Android were not charting because we have no
sort
of app store optimization.
And in order to achieve that, what you need is people searching up your app and
then organically
downloading it.
And at this time, I was just so focused on making the most because I didn't
know anything
about this space when we first launched this product.
This is all kind of came out of nowhere, $80,000 in MRR.
My life just completely changed.
And I was so focused on freedom.
Freedom was my why.
Freedom was the light at the end of the tunnel that if we executed and we got
this shit
done and we built something out of nothing, then I would be able to spend the
rest of
my life doing what I wanted within entrepreneurship and what I wanted with my
life rather than
answering to some fucking bullshit retarded nine to five boss.
So we're launching on Android and I'm like, man, we need to be ranking in the
app store.
So on the Google Play Store.
And I went through all of our most viral videos and I responded to thousands
and thousands
of comments in a day.
I swear to God, I was sitting there all fucking day for 16 hours, just going
through TikTok
saying, search up, blah, blah, blah, on the app store, search up, blah, blah,
blah,
on the app store.
Now could I've outsourced this to a VA, whatever, like, yeah, theoretically I
could have, but
time was a paramount importance.
Our competitor had just gotten on Android too.
We needed to beat them in the rankings and we didn't have a VA ready to go.
And so like, yeah, no one wants to sit there and respond to the same comment
for 12 hours
straight, right?
Like that sucks.
Nobody wants to do that.
But what I wanted more than anything else in the world was to ensure my long
term freedom
and setting up the, and beating out our competitor in the rankings would put us
in a position
where our growth would be more long term sustainable and I would have more
runway and
ability to ensure that I never had to get a job.
Now in retrospect, Android is actually not that important.
It's like 10 to 15% of revenue across my different apps and I actually don't
think that what I
did there was entirely necessary.
But given the data I had in the moment, that was what it took.
And so yeah, I think it's, I think it's important to dig deep.
It's another reason I'm a big believer in the fact that like how you do one
thing is how
you do everything and the sort of willpower and determination that I've
cultivated within
myself over years of weightlifting and reading books and studying in general
right statistics,
calculus, psychology, whatever it may be, working on so many different failed
business
ventures that then when the rubber really hit the road and I finally had a
working,
viable business model, I was the person that was able to take it all the way.
And if you constantly chase these sort of bullshit extrinsic motivators rather
than
having that, that why within you, you're going to burn out.
And so I guess that's my motivational speech to end off this unit on ideation
or this
module on ideation.
And the next module will go over design and taking the idea that you have and
building
it into an actual, you know, product in Figma.
So that's that and I will, yeah, nope, that's it.
That's that.
Peace out guys.
Hope you enjoyed.
[BLANK_AUDIO]